To determine whether successful completion of the Perinatal Education Programme (PEP) improves obstetric practice. The three midwife obstetric units (MOUs) in a health district of Mpumalanga were included in the study. Two MOUs enrolled in the PEP and the third did not. A 'before-and-after' study design was used to assess any changes in practice, and to monitor whether any changes occurred in the district during the time of the study; data were also collected at the third MOU. Data were collected by scoring of the obstetric files after the patient had delivered. We ascertained whether the obstetric history, syphilis testing, blood group testing, haemoglobin measurement and uterine growth assessment were performed during antenatal care along with whether appropriate action was taken. For intrapartum care, estimation of fetal weight, the performance of pelvimetry, blood pressure monitoring, urine testing, evaluation of head above pelvis, fetal heart rate monitoring, monitoring of contractions and plotting of cervical dilatation, and whether the appropriate actions were taken, were assessed. Eight of the 13 midwives at the two MOUs completed the PEP and all demonstrated an improvement in knowledge. Case notes of 303 patients from the various clinics were studied. There was no change in the referral patterns of any of the clinics during the study period. The obstetric history was well documented, but in no group was there a satisfactory response to a detected problem; appropriate action was taken in between 0% and 12% of cases. Syphilis testing was performed in 56-82% of cases, with no difference between the groups. The haemoglobin level was measured in only 4-15% of patients, with no difference before or after completion of the PEP. Where a problem in uterine growth was detected, an appropriate response occurred in 0-8% of patients and no difference before or after completion of the PEP was ascertained. In all groups, estimation of fetal weight and pelvimetry were seldom performed, the urine and fetal heart rate documentation were moderately well done and the blood pressure monitoring, assessment of head above pelvis, monitoring of contractions and plotting of cervical dilatation were usually performed. No differences before or after the PEP were detected. Where problems were detected, appropriate actions taken during labour improved, but not significantly.